Now that we have our authentication flow and route protection in place,
let's talk about security and there, about csrf
attacks. Csrf stands for cross-site request forgery,
now what is this?
This is a special kind of attack pattern or approach where people can abuse your sessions and trick
users of your application to execute malicious code.
This is how it works,
you have a user in your application
and now let's assume this is a visitor who indeed is logged in,
you have your server side code and your database with which you interact.
Now the user interacts with your frontend views, so the pages you render back and you get a session
for that user and of course the cookie that belongs to that session,
so everything you knows. Now the user can do intended things like for example send money to B, if you
are building a banking app or in our application, order some products with his own shipping address
if we had such a checkout process. Now in a csrf attack scenario, your user is tricked onto a fake
site
and this can be done for example by sending a link in an e-mail,
that site can look like your own page but it technically is a different one.
Now on that site, there could be a link leading to your page, to your real page executing some request
there,
of course you could include a form for example which sends a post request to your page, so to your own
node server where you added some fields to send money to another person, to C
in this case instead of B. To the user, this is pretty invisible because he saw a page that maybe looked
like your page or clicked on a link that instantly redirected to your page
but with behind the scenes some data being sent there that does something the user would not want to
do normally.
Now why does it work?
Well since you got valid session for that user if you send something to your site, to your servers, your
session is used for that user and therefore that behind the scenes data that the user never sees that
configures the money transferal or the order in a certain way that is not ok to the user,
this part is invisible to the user but the valid session gets used for it because your server is used
and therefore this is accepted. This is an attack pattern where the session can be stolen
so to say, where you can abuse the fact the users are logged in and you can simply trick them into making
requests which they might not even notice and obviously we want to protect against this attack pattern
and how can we protect now?
Well the idea is that we want to ensure that people can only use your session if they are working with
your views,
so with the views rendered by your application, so that the session is not available on any fake page
that might look like your page but that aren't your page. And to ensure this, to add this feature, we will
use a so-called csrf token.
Now let me show you how this works in the next lecture.